Welcome in this lecture we are going to be reviving the lobby.
We are going to be getting our players to spawn into the lobby instead of into the game directly.
And we're going to add in some logic into a game mode that's going to allow us to count the number of
players in the lobby so that we know when we are ready to start the game and we're going to be learning
all about the game mode why it's used where it runs and how to do that.
So let's dive in and see about this game mode and about this lobby.
Okay.
So one thing that we will notice now when we start a game and when we actually host using a newly created
host menu loops some reason some spawning uploads of players.
Let's stick with this one player.
Go to the Planum play menu and we go to host and type in whatever we want to do when we house you notice
that we are ending up in the game straight away without waiting for other players so we want to implement
a lobby mechanism and the correct place to implement a lobby mechanism is basically nowhere that we've
done it so far.
We want to do this in a game mode.
You may have encountered game modes before and never really realized why you would want to use one.
Well now we're finally going to actually override the game mode and see why it is necessary.
So it creates lots of rules underpinning the game but more importantly it allows us to handle certain
actions such as a CD player logging in.
So when we join we get some pre logging which allows us to reject a player who's trying to join.
We also get a post log in which happens after we've accepted the player and we get other things such
as restart player and log out which we may also be using or may not be using but basically it allows
us to handle people coming in and out of the game where we're going to spawn their pawns where they
go when they get killed and restart all those kind of rules about the game logic go in the game mode.
So we're going to want that to implement a lobby game mode that will allow basically a certain number
of players to appear in the lobby and once all those players have appeared they will simultaneously
together do something called a seamless travel and move on to the next level and actually start the
game altogether rather than having to wait for the other people to appear.
So let's begin with the first and rather easy step that you can do along with me which is joining into
the lobby.
So currently we're joining right into the game.
Let's stop that behaviour and go to Visual Studio and open up our game instance which is where we're
currently spawning ourselves into the game.
Get up the game instance C++ and we are going to look for the place where we're doing the spawning which
should be fairly evident because there'll be a big string there.
There it is.
It is in on Create session complete that we are then going ahead and doing a server travel to our third
person example map which is not where we want to be we want to be in the lobby.
We've created a lobby already so I'm going to go up to the puzzle platforms folder go into maps lobby
and then I can actually just copy from their control See on with the Lobby selected.
Go back to the C++ and just replace that game with this new string which is going to be game forward
slash puzzle platforms was map for life.
Going to remove the extraneous bits at the beginning and end such as World and Dot lobby and that gives
us the correct address so I can go ahead and build that.
And now again will launch into the lobby as we are intending now.
The next thing to do is go ahead and create a game mode class of our own for that lobby.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Is it a two step process here because actually we need to create the game mode and it's going to be
overriding app game mode that we already have.
We have this puzzle platforms game mode or h.
As you may have noticed and in that dot 8 we are setting things like the player pawn BP class.
So we want to keep that information in our lobby because we want to be spawning in with a third person
class.
Obviously if you wanted to change that that would be something that you would need to change.
So we're not going to be changing that but we are going to be overriding puzzle platforms game mode
to add information to the lobby class to add some extra behaviour.
So let's go to add new button in the content browser add new C++ class and then our class is obviously
not going to be here so I'm going to do show all base show all classes and it's going to be the puzzle.
Or if I can type it's going to be the puzzle platforms game mode that we're going after.
I'm going to hit next.
I'm just going to rename this to the lobby game mode.
Call it what it is and go ahead and create that class is going to do the usual C++ compiling configure
rating and so on so forth.
And once that's done we want to go ahead and set up big game mode so that it is the default game mode
for our lobby.
So let's go back to our puzzle platforms folder to the maps folder and open up our lobby level and in
the lobby level we can go to the blueprints menu and you'll notice here we've got a project settings
game mode which is set to the puzzle platforms game mode that's the default game mode for the whole
project and by default if there's nothing set then the levels will use this game mode.
However in this particular level we want to go down to our world over ride and we want to change the
game mode based class to the lobby game mode.
We do that then everything should be hunky dory we should be using a new game mode.
If we try playing in here you'll notice that not much has changed we still got our third person character
which is a good sign that we do want a third person character there even though it's used in the lobby
game mode instead of the default game mode and that's because we are overriding from the right thing
were overriding from our puzzle platforms game mode in the first place.
So what can we actually do with a game mode.
What's the point of having.
Here.
Well one of the things that we can achieve.
If we can use it to handle call-backs when we get people joining in our game.
So you will see over in the game mode documentation that I have linked you to that there is a function
called post logging.
This is called After a successful log in and this is the point at which we could start counting the
players that are coming in say We want to have 3 players total.
Then we start counting the players that have come in via logging and when that player has reached a
when that number has reached a certain critical maxim we can actually launch the game in properly and
basically execute a seamless travel to the correct place.
So this function is very useful but we don't know quite how to call it yet here it's just very cryptically
told us that it's called post log in.
Well the easiest way actually to go and find out how to call this is to go and look at the code so we
can follow the hierarchy of classes from a lobby game mode up to puzzle platforms game mode C update
H and in that dot H far we can see that we're actually deriving from not a game mode but a game mode
based now in that documentation.
You'll see that game mode base is basically a cut down version of game mode game mode included a lot
of logic that we don't actually need most of the time.
Game mode base is what you will by default be using in most projects in most new projects.
So if we go to the file where game mode base is declared it should be game mode based on.
You can search for it on a Mac or you can just do F 12 in visual studio to go and find it.
Then we will get to this head a file that shows us what things we can be doing with this class.
Now a good way to know what you can do with a class when you're inheriting from it is just to search
through the code.
Whoops I appear to have zoomed out massively.
In fact it's zooming out in massive increments.
So let me just go to the bottom left corner of that pain and reset it to 100 percent so we can read
in fact one little bit more than a hundred percent because that's a it's small isn't it.
What we got were the other tabs.
They've all changed as well.
So I'm going to put it at something like maybe 100 and 50.
That's a bit too much maybe just one hundred and twenty then.
Yes that's good.
Okay.
So what we're going to look for is the control virtual.
It's done again it's gone and zoomed again just because they had control.
And I did the scroll wheel.
So we're looking for the virtual key word and this is going to highlight all the methods that we could
override if we wanted to.
Now obviously that's a lot of methods and we're just looking for one in particular which is the post
in method which we can just go through and look for and we will find the signature.
So I'm going to go ahead and copy this entire line and take it into my lobby game mode.
Dot H.
To implement.
Now the best practice when you are overriding virtual things is to put override at the end of your method.
Now what this does it's not necessary but when it's there it make sure that there is a function in the
parent class or one of the parent classes going up the chain of inheritance that matches the signature
that you are giving here.
So you know that this is definitely overriding the correct thing because if you had mistyped it and
you had put I don't know something like bull.
Something in the signature.
Then this would be a different method and it would no longer be overriding something in the parent class
and sure enough I get the red squiggles which tell me that override does not override a base class member
which is because I had that override function there if I didn't have override there what I'd be doing
is something perfectly valid which is creating a new virtual post log in function.
But it is not doing what I had intended.
So if we add override it gives us that extra level of certainty and safety to know that we are overriding
something from the base class.
The other thing to note about that is that because we are definitely overriding something from the base
class then this function is going to be virtual.
You can't take a function and make it on virtual somewhere down the hierarchy so we don't actually need
to put a virtual keyword in front of this signature.
It will be virtual automatically because we're already using override.
It's clear to the people reading it in this file that this must be a virtual function so I'm going to
leave the virtual off the front just to not need any redundant information there.
So rather than implement this I'm going to leave the implementation up to you because what I'm going
to challenge you to do is count the players in the lobby so you're going to do this by implementing
post log in like I've done or at least started to do.
And you going to do the same thing for logout you're going to find what the signature for logout is
and implement that as well.
And then using these two methods you are going to count the number of players that have arrived into
your lobby and when you reach a certain number when you reach three players log a message when you reach
three players saying that three players have been reached and that should help you identify also where
the game mode is.
Is it on the server.
Is it on the client or is it on both.
I'd like you to report that little bit of homework as well.
They go well and that little check item in for you to check off as well.
So pause a video and have a go at this challenge.
Okay welcome back.
Let's answer some of those questions.
So the first thing is logout I'm going to need that as well so let's go to the game.
Mo bass and look for log out.
Actually it's right amita Loggins so I barely need to look good.
Go ahead and copy that go in to our lobby game mode dot H and paste it in there.
Now I can remove virtual and I'm going to add an override just to make sure that we are overriding the
right thing.
I'm pretty sure we are.
But let's just make sure.
Now let's copy both those go in to the C++ and I am going to go ahead and add in some bodies.
Now obviously you don't need an override in the C++ that is superfluous.
I am going to need the namespace so I'm going to copy a lobby game mode from the head of file and use
that as the namespace for a post log in and for log out and I'm going to remove the override from the
logout which is not needed in the definition because signature has already defined that.
Okay so now we've got post log in and log out.
We are going to need to do some counting.
Where are we going to be do that.
Doing the counting.
Well one thing I haven't done is made sure that post log in and log out are public or private.
Like they are in the game mode based now.
If you go and look at the game base you'll see that they are public so we will set them to public as
well.
And then we're going to create a private section in the head a file and in the private section we are
going to create a variable for the number of players which I'm going to use.
A You went 32 for this.
If I can type because it's coming out as unit 32 and I'm going to have number of players.
And I'm going to start that off as there's zero.
Okay so we've got number of players and then with this number of players we are going to increment it
or we've got a post log in and in a decrement it when we've got a log out.
So that's going to be fairly easy plus plus number of players in the post log in and minus minus number.
Of.
Players.
In the log out so that should do the trick.
We don't need to do anything beyond this now.
There will be somewhere that the player can transfer being stored you could go and count the play controls
if you wanted to.
But I think it's just so much easier to do our own count rather than go looking for where these player
controllers are stored.
So let's go on to the next bit which is and again be printing out when we have a log message with three
or more.
So we're going to do that on logging because that's the only one that could incremental.
And so make us have more than three players.
So in this I'm going to put an if statement that says that the number of players is greater than or
equal to 3.
And when this is the case then we're going to want to do a e log with log temp and I'm going to give
it a warning type and then we're going to have some text in here.
The text is simply going to say reached three players.
That would go.
And I'll put SEMICON on the end of the line even though it doesn't necessarily need it with a you log
and we can go ahead and build this.
So what we're going to do is we're going to open up a few instances of the game and try and join in
on one hosting session and see where this logs.
Importantly So where is the game mode running.
And also whether it works.
So I'm going to skip on over to the power shell and launch myself.
Three instances of the game so that we can get to three players by joining in.
It's just fire up a few of those.
Okay here we are.
So with our first one we're going to go ahead and host.
I'm going to give this the imaginative name of donkey as Ben always likes to do it in in honour of him.
Okay.
So first thing of note is that we do appear to be not spawning in here as a third person player.
That's a bit weird.
Let's note that and carry on for now.
Now we'll go and join that session in that these other two game instances so I'm going to set off b
join loading for both of them and.
Okay.
We've got a couple of instances running here.
That's interesting isn't it.
Why have we got multiple instances running here.
Probably because we've still got something running in the editor.
Maybe maybe maybe not.
Doesn't look like we've got anything running in the editor so it shouldn't be that lets anyway go and
join donkey instance.
So here's me in the lobby and let's go and join with the third.
And here we are.
So we should now have a log message.
Let's go and check that out.
So we're going to have a look at a few.